
kills + aces + opponent errors/service errors/ball handling errors

aces = receiving errors

serve: ace, service error, in play
in play: team kill, team error, in play; opponent kill, opponent error, in play

kill, attack error, 0 attack

Article 1. An attack attempt (ATT) is recorded any time a player attempts
to attack (hit strategically) the ball into the opponent's court. The
ball may be spiked, set, tipped or hit as an overhead contact. There are
three possible outcomes of an attack attempt:

(1) There can be a kill.
(2) There can be an attack error.
(3) The ball can stay in play. This is referred to as a "0 attack" (zero
attack).

Philosophy. Any ball that is played over the net in an attempt to score
a point should be considered an attack. Any ball played over the net simply
to keep the ball alive should not be considered an attack attempt.

The exceptions to an attack attempt are:

(1) An attempt is not charged on a ball played over the net on serve
reception that is kept in play by the opposing team. This is called
an overpass.

(2) An attempt is not charged on a free ball played over the net
when, in the opinion of the statistician, the free ball is passed only
to keep the ball in play.

(3) An attempt is not charged to a player if, in the opinion of the statistician,

the set is bad and the player plays the ball over the net
only to keep the ball in play.

(4) An attempt is not charged to a player if, in the opinion of the statistician,
the player passes the ball over the net only to keep it in
play.

However, if in any of the four above-mentioned instances the action
results directly in a point for the team playing the ball, a kill (see Article
2), and therefore an attack attempt, must be awarded.

It is possible to spot errors or major discrepancies in your statistics
compilations by completing these cross-checks:

(1) A team’s total service aces must equal the opponent’s total reception
errors. If a team had 10 service aces, then the opposing team
must have 10 reception errors. (Team reception errors should be
included in the total of reception errors.)

(2) A team's total assists are nearly equal to, but never more than, that
team's kills. The difference would be due to the opposing team's
overpasses that Team A kills. The possibility of assists and kills being
equal exists, but is unlikely.

(3) A team's total team blocks must not exceed the opposing team's
hitting errors.

(4) The total number of individual blocks is the sum of block solos
and block assists. Each counts one point. The total number of
team blocks is the sum of block solos and half the number of
block assists

(5) When a ball is attacked, there are only a certain number of situations
that can occur. There can be a kill, an attack error or the ball
can stay in play ("0 attack").
There are certain statistical combinations that can occur, depending
on the outcome of the attack attempt. There can be a block
solo or block assists (also an attack error), a blocking error (also a
kill), a dig (also a "0 attack"), or the ball can be kept in play off the
block attempt (also a "0 attack").
The check is: A team's attacks are nearly equal to its own kills plus
errors plus the opposing team’s digs. The difference would be due
to balls that are returned by the opposing team with a blocking
motion, but stay on the attacking team's side of the court and are
kept in play ("put backs").

(6) A team's total digs cannot exceed the number of "zero attacks" by
its opponent occurring in the match. Each team has only a certain
number of opportunities to record digs during the course of
play. For instance, Team A attacks the ball 100 times during the
match—35 result in kills and 10 in attack errors. This leaves 55 attack
attempts (100-[35+10]) that can be dug by Team B. It is not
likely that every ball will be dug, as some may be blocked back to
Team A's side by Team B and kept in play by Team A. (We refer to
these as “put backs” as they do not count as blocks statistically.)
